>>Picking up the
alignment that started
at the tip of the
Federal Triangle in DC
through New York City's
Central Park to its endpoint
at the center of
Stonehenge, we are
wondering why would the
founding fathers in DC
and city planners
in New York City
conspire to link
their fare cities
with this ancient temple?
The reason is simple.
Stonehenge is at the
heart of the mystery.
Let's take a closer look.
The first monument
at the site was
begun during the Neolithic
period around 3,100 years
before the common era.
And Stonehenge was completed
during the Bronze Age,
approximately 4,500 years ago.
Here's a reconstruction
of Stonehenge
phase 3 at its height
showing the sarsen ring
with its stone lintels,
huge trilithons, and smaller
bluestones.
The larger Aubrey Circle is a
ring of 56 holes accommodating
four standing stations stones.
Connecting the
station stones, we
see what researchers call
the station rectangle.
The amazing thing is it has
precisely the same 5 to 12
proportion as we've already
seen in DC and New York City.
Now we see where this proportion
comes from as this is surely
the oldest known example.
The astronomer Gerald Hawkins
has shown how the station
rectangle encode specific
astronomical phenomena,
including cycles of
earth, moon, and sun
commemorated by
important festivals
in the Celtic calendar.
Stukeley, one of the founders
of the field of archeology
in the 18th century whose great
work was studying Stonehenge,
claimed that freemasonry was
a legacy of the druids who
in turn got their knowledge
from the ancient Egyptians.
The seven pointed star inscribed
within the Aubrey Circle
clearly locates the sarsen
ring and frames the horseshoe
of trilithons and blue stones.
After identifying seven as Isis'
secret number in New York City,
I'm wondering if this
seven pointed star isn't
the star of Isis?
The Egyptian civilization
was at its height at the time
of Stonehenge is completion.
And although we have no
archaeological evidence
physically link
the two cultures,
it remains an
intriguing possibility.
Avebury and Syllabary Hill are a
short distance from Stonehenge.
Archaeologists say
both of these monuments
were built at the same
time as Stonehenge,
approximately 5,000 years ago.
The late John Michell, said
to be father of the earth
mysteries, and surveyor and
researcher, Robin Heath,
discovered amazing
relationships between all three
Neolithic monuments in terms
of their precise locations
upon the earth.
The base of Syllabary
Hill is 864,000 feet
from the center of Stonehenge.
The sun's diameter
is 864,000 miles.
The distance from 51
degrees' north latitude
to the latitude of Stonehenge
measures 10.8 Egyptian Royal
Miles.
The mean radius of the
moon is 1,080 miles.
The latitude of
Stonehenge is 17.28 miles
from the latitude of Avebury.
We learned in DC how
1728 symbolizes the cube.
Avebury's latitude is precisely
360 divided by 7 degrees north.
Dividing a circle into seven
parts yields the star of Isis.
The placement of Stonehenge,
Avebury, and Syllabary Hill
encode the numbers of the sun,
moon, cube, and heptagram star.
Please measure these things
yourself in Google Earth
or with other methods.
This hard, metrological
evidence should completely
revise our understanding
of prehistory.
Early in the 20th
century, archaeologists
discovered a quarry
in the Preseli Hills
where the bluestones
used in Stonehenge
were mined approximately
130 miles from Stonehenge.
Putting aside the
practical issue
of how the builders
transported these large stones
to the building site,
let's focus instead
on an even greater mystery.
Heath had surveyed the distance
from Stonehenge to an island
due west in the Bristol
Channel called Lundy.
When Heath told Michell that
the distance from the center
of Stonehenge to a
small hill called
The Tump at the
center of Lundy island
was precisely the memorable
number 123.4 statute miles,
Michell recognized the
number from his research
and then all the pieces
quickly fit together.
A statute mile is equal
to 5,280 English feet
and is still used
to measure distances
on roads in the United States.
Michell and Heath drew a
triangle connecting Stonehenge,
Lundy, and the Presley mine.
Two such matching
interlocking triangles
form a rectangle that
has the same proportions
as Stonehenge's
station rectangle,
and amazingly is exactly
2,500 times larger.
This is the greater temple.
What is more, the distances
in the Lundy rectangle
fit ancient Egyptian measure.
Robin Heath's brother, Richard,
pointed out in "Sacred Number"
that 123.4 statute
miles is precisely
equal to 108 Royal
Miles the same unit
that we've seen in
Edinburgh and DC.
This is no arbitrary
distance, as 108 royal miles
is 1/32 of the polar
radius of the Earth.
The architects of
Stonehenge must
have chosen the building
site in relation
to an origin point
originally selected
at the center of Lundy island.
It's absolutely sublime the
way Stonehenge resonates
with the whole region
and with the planet.
As above, so below.
108 is a number sacred to
many of the world's religions.
For example, there
are 108 prayer beads
in the holy rosary.
The rosary is a key devotional
path in the Catholic veneration
of Mary.
The worshippers'
fingers keep track
of the number of
Hail Mary prayers
they recite by moving
along one bead at a time.
Hindus, Buddhists and Jains all
use Japa Mala prayer necklaces
in much the same
way as Catholics.
Incredibly, Japa Malas
are most commonly
made with exactly 108 beads.
These too are
fingered as the devote
the chants or repeats mantras.
Whether the worshipper is
conscious of it or not,
the moon is ultimately
behind what they are actually
venerating in 108 recitations.
As I already mentioned,
the mean radius of the moon
is 1,080 miles.
The connection between
goddesses and the moon
is as old as humanity.
Co-incidentally,
the element silver,
which has always been
associated with the moon,
has an atomic weight
of 108 grams per mol.
In the lost science of
measuring the earth,
Michell and Heath show
how the English foot
was derived from the earth's
equatorial circumference.
The distance around the equator
equals 360,000 times 365.242
with incredible accuracy of
99.994% the current standard.
This means the distance
around the equator measured
in English feet is
the number of days
in a year times the number of
degrees in a circle times 1000.
Historians have lost track
of when exactly the foot was
invented in the mists of
time, but you'll usually
hear some tired anecdote
about some old King's Bigfoot.
We can now confidently
say that whoever
defined the English foot knew
the equatorial circumference
of the Earth with an accuracy
in the thousandths of 1%.
We only achieved this
level of precision
in Earth measure in 1995
when the global positioning
system, or GPS, became
fully operational.
Clearly, we are not
the first to achieve
this level of technological
sophistication.
The mile is also based on
the dimensions of the earth.
There are 12 to
the fifth divided
by 10 miles in the meridian
circumference of the Earth.
528 is the resonant key that
both defines the statute mile--
because 5,280 feet
are equal to one
mile-- and the central frequency
of the ancient solfeggio,
an ancient musical scale
used in religious chanting.
Metrology, the science
of measurement,
is one of the keys to decrypting
the ancient mysteries.
After all, the word geometry
literally means earth measure.
And virtually all ancient
measurement systems
were based upon the
dimensions of the earth.
As John Neal laid out in his
groundbreaking book, "All Done
With Mirrors," which was
subsequently expanded upon
and popularized in books by Jean
Michell and the Heath brothers,
the English foot turns out to be
the root of the ancient system
wherein units designed to
measure different scales
were interrelated by
fractional relationships.
The way the ancient system
used simple fractions
is analogous to how the metric
system uses powers of 10
to interconnect units
used at different scales,
such as millimeter,
centimeter, kilometer, etc.
As if these discoveries
weren't enough,
John Michell and
Robin Heath stumbled
upon yet another amazing find.
There is an island
just north of Lundy
called Caldey, where there is
a very old priory church built
over an ancient druid menhir.
This island is located
at the two to three
point along the Presley
Lundy edge of the figure.
Musicians will recognize
this proportion
as the fifth-- the most
fundamental interval in music.
If you draw a line connecting
Stonehenge with the precise two
to three point roughly
coincident with Caldey
you get the
following proportion.
If the Lundy-Stonehenge
line is 12 then
the Caldey-Stonehenge line
is the square root of 153.
Believe it or not, we'll
see this cryptic number--
153-- again in the Louvre
pyramid, and also in the Bible.
So what's up with the
square root of 153?
Simple.
It equals 12.369, the number
of full moons in a year.
So the proportions of the
simple diagram in code cycles
of sun, earth, and moon.
This is far too much to be
explained away by chance.
However, Michell and
Heath don't offer a theory
as to how the Neolithic
tribes people knew
the precise size of the Earth,
surveyed such long distances,
or understood subtle
mathematical and astronomical
relationships living in
what we know for certain
to be an utterly primitive
physical culture.
Logically, one must
consider the possibility
that someone other than
Neolithic tribes people
built Stonehenge.
Michell and Heath's
work sadly hasn't
been accepted by the
scientists of our times
and is ridiculed
as pseudo-science
because their research has
exposed how little we really
understand about the
origins of civilization.
I, for one, urge you
to keep an open mind,
and to weigh the
evidence yourself
using the scientific method.
Academics today have little
tolerance for theories
that completely upset
the apple cart if they
wish to keep receiving funding.
I don't have an
unassailable theory either,
but I will say that the
builders of Stonehenge
sure had some extraordinary
architects directing
their work.
Fast forward four millennia from
Stonehenge and not far away,
Isaac Newton is hard
at work in London
on his theory of gravity.
He's already invented calculus
to cope with the mathematics,
but now needs an accurate
value for the size of the Earth
so he can calculate
its precise volume
and thus fix his
gravitational constant.
Few realize that Newton was
much more than a scientist.
Today's scientists
downplay the fact
that their greatest hero was
also a practicing alchemist,
an art many today would
consider pseudo-science.
For example, Newton was the
first to quantify temperature
in 1700 with a
scale that was based
on the freezing and
boiling points of water.
I find it particularly
interesting
that Newton chose to measure his
scale from zero to 33 degrees.
Conspiracy buffs are also aware
of Newton being identified
in the Dossiers Secrets as
one of the grand masters
of the Priory of Scion, an
offshoot of the Templars.
Whatever his reasons,
Newton believed
that the great
pyramids metrology
encrypted the true
dimensions of the earth.
John Greaves,
professor of astronomy
at the University of Oxford,
surveyed the Great Pyramid
just before Isaac
Newton was born.
Newton meticulously
studied Greaves work
and based his own dissertations
on ancient metrology on it.
In 1637, Greaves made
the most accurate survey
of the Great Pyramid ever
undertaken up to that point
in history.
He was the first to make
the unlikely conclusion
that the foot was at the root
of the pyramids measurements.
To commemorate his discovery,
Greaves inscribed a line
inside the King's
Chamber measuring
precisely one English
foot with the words
"to be observed by all nations."
The unfinished pyramid, that is
without its absent pyramidion
cap, measures exactly
480 English feet
in height, which also
happens to be precisely
equal to 1/11 of a mile.
The width comes in
at exactly 756 feet.
Herodotus, the
father of history,
explained that the Great
Pyramid was originally capped
by a small model pyramid
called a pyramidion, which
was sheathed in electrum,
an alloy of gold and silver.
Unfortunately, the valuable
pyramidion is long gone,
Richard Heath's metrology shows
the great pyramid's pyramidion
measured 1 and 1/11
feet in height.
This metallic cap would
reflect the sun's light
and look a lot like the shining
eye on top of the US dollar
bill.
The Great Pyramid is the
sole surviving wonder
of the ancient world.
It remains the oldest,
largest, and most accurate
building ever built. It
was the tallest structure
in the world for four millennia.
It is aligned within a tenth
of a percent of true North,
and its 13-acre base supporting
2.3 million blocks of stone
is horizontal and flat
to within 15 millimeters.
The mean opening and joins
between exterior casing stones
is less than half a millimeter.
The scale and accuracy
are astounding.
I believe that even with
all the money in the world,
we do not have the
technical capability
to replicate the
Great Pyramid today.
There is much to be said about
the great pyramids proportions.
I've already mentioned
how 7:11 was encoded
in the Statue of Liberty.
Renaissance artist
Albrecht Durer
used the half triangle
proportion of 14:11
in his esoteric masterpiece
Melancholia One.
Richard Heath has
found the half triangle
also encodes 365
days to 20 moons--
an interesting astronomical
take on the mystery.
Notice how Pi and Phi, two
of the most important numbers
in mathematics, are also
implicated and interrelated
in the pyramid proportions.
John Charles Webb Jr. has
made a profound discovery
about the location of the Great
Pyramid that is unfortunately
widely ignored because of
its utter implausibility.
Using Google Earth, we can
measure the exact latitude
of the center of the Grand
Gallery inside the pyramid.
It is 29.9792458 degrees north.
The speed of light in the
vacuum is 299,792,458 meters
per second.
Incredibly, these
are the same numbers.
How can this be?
This correlation is either
pure coincidence or evidence
of something very profound.
The meter as a unit of
length and the practice
of dividing time
into seconds would
have to be coordinated for the
location of the Great Pyramid
to encode the speed of light.
Nothing may sound
more improbable,
but this is exactly the
sort of numbers game
that I think the
ancients played.
Consider the fact
that one second
is one Earth rotation
divided into 86,400 parts
because one day is
equal to 86,400 seconds.
Recall from the Stonehenge
in San Francisco episodes
that the sun's diameter
is 864,000 miles,
and 864 is the
number of the sun.
Perhaps the second and
the mile were skillfully
designed to express this
beautiful harmony with the sun.
The kilometer was
originally defined
by assuming the earth's
meridian circumference equals
40,000 kilometers.
In Paris Part 3 you'll
learn more about something
I call the Canon of 400.
For a taste, consider that
during a solar eclipse
the moon perfectly
covers the sun disk.
The only reason this
occurs so precisely
is because the moon is exactly
400 times smaller than the sun.
While at the same time, the
moon is 400 times closer
to the Earth than the sun.
In addition, the earth turns
400 times faster than the moon.
Perhaps saying the earth
has a meridian circumference
of 40 million meters
was no accident
as it's in the same
number of canon.
I think the meter
was secretly designed
to resonate with the sun.
In fact, today the
meter is circularly
defined in terms of the speed of
light, which is itself measured
in meters per second.
Consider the possibility
that the meter
is an ancient unit that
was merely reintroduced
300 years ago during a time
of great hermetic obsession
in France.
With these facts in mind.
It is easier to see how
disparate units spaced
on our planet source
of light truly encode
the speed of light using the
location of the Great Pyramid
itself.
Our history books
somehow missed the fact
that architects at
the dawn of history
knew the speed of
light in the vacuum
and the exact size of the
Earth with pinpoint accuracy.
Perhaps the Great
Pyramid was made
before the Egyptian culture
began by different architects
entirely.
In 1964, Alex Badawy
and Victoria Trimble
discovered that shafts
in the King's Chamber
within the Great
Pyramid pointed directly
at a belt star in the Orion
constellation and the Pole Star
at the time the
pyramid was built.
In 1993, Rudolf
Gantenbrink got permission
from the Egyptian
authorities to send a robot
up shafts in the Great Pyramid.
He was able to accurately
measure the exact shaft angles,
and this data allowed Robert
Bauval and Adrian Gilbert
to run astronomical
calculations showing
precisely where the shafts in
the kings and queens chambers
are pointing to in the sky.
In their 1995 book, "The Orion
Mystery," Bauval and Gilbert
revealed that the shafts
in the Queen's Chamber
point directly to the
star Sirius in the south
and to the Pole Star
at the time the pyramid
was built in the north.
I can understand the
Pole Star connection
because recognizing
that stars rotate around
the celestial pole is the
most fundamental observation
in astronomy.
But why do the other shafts
point to Orion and Sirius?
The book "Talisman" by Graham
Hancock and Robert Bauval
sheds light on this mystery.
"Orion and Sirius represented
Osiris and his con sort Isis
to the ancient Egyptians.
They are in a region
of the sky called
the Duat, the Egyptian
netherworld where
souls journeyed and were
judged after death."
Hieroglyphs in the
3,400-year-old tomb of Thutmose
the Third explain the benefits
of copying the Duat upon
the earth.
"Whoever shall make
a copy of the Duat
and shall know it
upon earth, it shall
act as a magical
protector for him
both in heaven and in earth,
unfailingly, regularly,
and eternally."
So the Egyptians
believed building copies
of Orion and Sirius
upon the earth
acted as magical talismans
bringing the power of heaven
down to earth.
We've certainly seen a
much more recent example
of this in Washington DC.
The Orion constellation is
often depicted as a hunter
with a sword between his legs.
Dan S. Ward of
how alexandria.org
says, "No male wears a
sword between his legs,
and very few hunters
carry a sword.
Perhaps a more
appropriate description
of that which is hanging
down below Orion's waist
is that of a phallus."
The area of Osiris' phallus
contains the Orion nebula,
one of the most studied
regions of space
because it is an incredibly
generative area where stars are
continually being formed.
How appropriate.
By the way, we are in the Orion
spur of the Milky Way galaxy
and Sirius is the brightest
star in the sky by a wide margin
because it is one of
our nearest neighbors.
We now have the
astronomical knowledge
to recognize we are actually
quite close to the Duat.
Bauval and Gilbert showed that
the three pyramids of Giza
actually have the same
position and relative sizes
as the belt stars of Orion.
Dr. Gerhart Haney noticed that
just as the belt stars of Orion
point at Sirius, the pyramids
point directly at Heliopolis,
ancient center of
Egyptian science,
art, and religion, which
was a single unified body
of knowledge in ancient times.
Pythagoras, Plato, and many
other ancient philosophers
journeyed to Heliopolis
where initiated there
in the Egyptian mysteries
and spread them in the West.
Today, the only thing that's
left of this entire city
is a single obelisk,
which happens
to be the oldest standing
obelisk in the world.
Incidentally, this
single obelisk
is all that's left of the
ancient Temple of the Phoenix,
which was described
by Herodotus.
I can't help but recall Phoenix
imagery in the Security Council
Chamber of the United Nations.
It's amazing how many
connections there
are between the symbolism of
the elite and ancient Egypt.
You've already heard about
one Heliopolitan obelisk
next to the Met in New
York City and its pair
on the Victoria
embankment in London.
Rome has the remainder of
the heliopolitan obelisks
left in the world.
Heliopolis was the cult
center for the nine
great Egyptian gods,
collectively called the Ennead.
We'll learn more about the
Ennead in San Francisco.
In the first decade
of the 20th century,
G.I. Gurdjieff went
on a mystical journey
where he met with a
number of remarkable men.
At Mount Athos in Greece
he was supposedly entrusted
with the key to decoding ancient
Egyptian knowledge preserved
by the Sufi Sarmoung
Brotherhood.
The key he received is the
enneagram and the means
to decipher it.
"The enneagram is the
fundamental hieroglyph
of a universal language.
All knowledge can be
included in the enneagram,
and with the help
of the enneagram
it can be interpreted."
Gurdjieff philosophy was
popularized by his pupil
Ouspensky, and through him
the enneagram found its way
into modern psychology.
The enneagram of
personality is a typology
described by Riso
and Hudson that's
used in business,
psychotherapy, arts, education,
and for spiritual development.
The Baha'i faith correspondingly
uses a nine-pointed star
as its symbol.
Baha'i scripture specifies
that every house of worship
must feature a
nine-sided great room.
There is even a
Christian connection.
In the ninth book of
the New Testament,
Saint Paul wrote "the
fruit of the Holy Spirit
is love, joy, peace,
patience, kindness, goodness,
faithfulness, gentleness
and self-control.
Against such things
there is no law."
Here is the
traditional depiction
of the fruits of the
Holy Spirit shown
with first letters in Latin.
It's another nine-pointed star.
With these things in mind, let's
explore the sacred geometry
of San Francisco.
Believe it or not,
San Francisco is
steeped in Egyptian Symbolism.
The original Michael H. De Young
Museum that was built in 1894
had an Egyptian theme,
complete with an under pyramid
entrance that anticipated the
recent addition to the Louvre.
The museum was unfortunately
destroyed in the 1908
earthquake, and the De
Young Museum is presently
in its third incarnation.
However, the two Sphinx that
flanked the original museum's
entrance are still there.
The Transamerica Pyramid
is a landmark worldwide,
and is the most famous
building in the city.
But the Transamerica
Pyramid neither
houses the headquarters of
the Transamerica corporation,
nor is it really a pyramid.
Does it remind
you of an obelisk?
It's clearly not a true obelisk
because it's not carved out
of a single piece of granite,
and the elevator core
protrudes out of the
sides of the structure.
But we can see beyond
this modern necessity
to perceive its symbolism.
The height of the 1972 structure
is commonly cited at 853 feet,
but this figure doesn't
include the glass pyramidion
cap and its mast.
Adding the additional 11
feet, brings the total
up to 864 feet, making this the
tallest obelisk in the world,
far exceeding the Washington
Monument's 555 feet.
And 864 is a very
interesting number indeed.
As you learned at Stonehenge,
the sun's diameter
happens to be 864,000 miles.
In addition, there are exactly
86,400 seconds in a day.
By making the Transamerica
Pyramid 864 feet high,
the architect was clearly
making it a solar symbol.
The glass pyramidion cap
contains a brilliant light
that shines forth on July 4th.
In addition to it being
US Independence Day,
July 4th is also
aphelion, the day
the earth is farthest from
the sun in its yearly cycle.
The Transamerica Pyramid
occupies a privileged site
in the streets of San Francisco.
It marks the end point
of Columbus Avenue,
which cuts across the street
grid at a 40 degree angle.
It's funny, but I recognize the
significance of this 40 degree
angle immediately because I had
just been hired by an architect
to make a 3D model of
his nine-sided atrium.
This incredible
synchronicity is what allowed
me to make the next discovery.
When I overlaid a
nine-sided figure
on the streets of San
Francisco, here is what I found.
The Transamerica Pyramid
fits this vertex.
Columbus Avenue runs along
this edge, the grid of streets
matches this edges
40 degree turn.
And most significantly,
it appears
that Treasure Island was
designed to fit this figure.
Treasure Island was
completed in 1937
in time for the Golden Gate
international exposition.
The US navy controversially
seized Treasure Island
from the city of San
Francisco during World War II.
The Navy built the unusual
star shaped barracks
in the approximate location of
the tower that had been torn
down after the expo and '37.
The barracks also
happened to be exactly
at the midpoint of this
edge of the diagram.
While I'm not certain what
the barracks symbolize,
their shape and position
does seem significant.
Masonic author,
Albert Churchward,
says the hieroglyph of the risen
sun god Horus looks like this.
Also, six triangles
in hieroglyphs
means land of the spirits.
In any case, the Navy base
was recently decommissioned
and Treasure Island is
now open to the public.
I went there to find
the barracks abandoned,
but the strange symbolism
remains at least
for a little while longer.
There is currently
a plan in the works
to build a large mixed-use
development on Treasure Island.
The plan scheduled
to be completed
in 2022 calls for a
650 foot tall sun tower
to be constructed where the
star shaped barracks are today.
Coincidentally,
the single bus line
that serves Treasure
Island is route 108.
Again in the
Stonehenge segment, you
learned why 108
symbolizes the moon.
So in a few years, you'll
be able to ride the moon
bus to the sun tower.
In the Great Pyramid segment, we
studied the ennead or pantheon
of the nine ancient Egyptian
gods worshiped at Heliopolis,
the city of the sun.
When we layer the ennead
over the nine-sided figure,
we see the correlation between
the solar Transamerica America
pyramid and the phallic
obelisk of Osiris.
When I turned on the terrain
layer in Google Earth,
Telegraph Hill poked up
through the ennead layer,
so I started
researching Coit Tower.
It was designed by
Arthur Brown Jr. in 1933
after Brown designed three
buildings in the Federal
Triangle, which you'll
remember figured prominently
in the secret architecture
of Washington DC.
The octagonal top of Coit Tower
fits within the octagram star,
which you saw in
Washington DC part two is
a classic solar symbol.
Do you think this
is coincidental?
There were four pairs
of male and female gods
in the oldest Egyptian
creation myth, which
pre-dated the ennead.
The Ogdoad, as the
eight gods were known,
was venerated in Hermopolis,
the city of Hermes.
Hermes was his Greek name,
Mercury was his Roman one.
While both names echo Thoth,
source of the Egyptian wisdom.
All of these names
supposedly reference
the same immortal figure who
dispensed wisdom to humanity
at different points in history.
The subtle arcs along the
sides of the structure
suggest the interlocking circles
of the vesica piscis, which
represents the female genitals.
Perhaps not surprisingly
and just like the Washington
Monument, Coit Tower
symbolizes the act of coitus
or the sacred union
of Isis and Osiris.
Hancock and Bauval have well
documented in their book
"Talisman" how Thoth's
knowledge-base was passed down
through the Gnostics, Manichees,
Bogomills, and Cathars.
All were ruthlessly wiped
out by the Catholic church.
Any remaining followers were
then completely annihilated
by the Inquisition.
Thankfully, the Pope's
weren't entirely
successful in instituting
a permanent dark age
because a century after
the Inquisition Cosimo de'
Medici recovered the
Corpus Medica, which
was written in the first
century in Alexandria.
This older stream of
hermetic knowledge
that escaped the burning of
the Library of Alexandria
actually fueled the
Italian Renaissance
and then went underground
in secret societies
that persists to this day.
The Golden Gate
is neither golden,
nor is it literally a gate.
Instead, it's the red
bridge built the same year
as Treasure island.
Known throughout the world as
an engineering marvel and symbol
of San Francisco,
it also represents
the fulfillment of manifest
destiny-- the 19th century
belief in the inexorable
expansion of the United States
from sea to shining sea.
Here's a 19th century
painting depicting the goddess
Columbia leading
settlers westward
in an allegorical representation
of manifest destiny.
The Golden Gate is actually a
concept from, you guessed it,
ancient Egypt.
Are you seeing the pattern here?
They believe the Golden
Gate was the threshold
souls must pass after death
on their way to the Duat.
You might be
interested, they also
spoke of a silver
gate guarded by Isis,
the great mother of the sun.
Souls passing through the
silver gate on their journey
from the divine source are
incarnated upon the earth.
I think Treasure Island
represents the silver gate
guarded by Isis.
Its seven sides certainly
have her number.
Perhaps the gift of incarnation
itself is the treasure.
The soul journeys westward
like the American settler
and passes over Alcatraz,
one of the world's
most famous prisons.
This fits with the Cathar
belief that the body
is the prison of the soul.
All the while, angels--
this is Angel Island--
fly above in a higher dimension.
Angel Island is a
state park and has
incomparable views of the Bay.
The adjacent peninsula
is the town of Belvedere,
one of the highest income
places in the United States.
There may be a few angel
investors in Belvedere
who take in the incredible
scenery and its symbolism.
After doing time upon
the earth, the soul
passes through the Golden
Gate to meet its destiny
in the Duat.
Now we are way out there.
Let's fly back to Giza and
get back down to the earth.
The pyramids of Giza
are said to be located
in the middle of the earth.
Jim Allison is an
independent researcher
who's uncovered some
mind blowing geometry.
Here he's taken the
vesica piscis and laid it
over the circle of the Earth.
Giza is at this point,
equidistant from the North Pole
and the center of the Earth.
Quite a central location
when you see it this way.
In one of the oldest surviving
hermetic fragments called
the Kore Kosmou, or
"Virgin of the World,"
Isis has this to say
to her son Horace.
"But the right Holy
Land of our ancestors
lies in the middle of
the earth, and the middle
of the human body is the
sanctuary of the heart,
and the heart is the
headquarters of the soul,
and that, my son, is the
reason why men of this land
are more wise.
It could not be otherwise,
seeing they are born and bred
upon Earth's heart."
The heart of Egypt would
have to be the Great Pyramid
and it embodies
many more secrets.
Let's investigate a few more.
Here I've superimposed two
instances of the same 3D model.
When we draw a circle from the
center of the pyramid in plan
to the tip of the
pyramid in elevation,
something amazing happens.
We square the circle.
The circumference
of the circle is
equal to the perimeter
of the square.
This is a sacred diagram
that encodes much wisdom.
Mathematicians have
proven this diagram can't
be drawn perfectly because
of the transcendental nature
of pi.
Approximations are all that is
possible in a flat Euclidean
space.
In the book "The
Dimensions of Paradise,"
John Michell has shown
how the first Pythagorean
triplet is the key to the
wisdom encoded in this diagram.
Here 3-4-5 triangles
set the scale
and make it a very
easy approximation
for anyone to draw with
compasses and a ruler.
Now brace yourself
for the wisdom.
The moon and Earth
actually fit this diagram.
The size of the moon
compared to the earth
is as three is to 11
with a 99.97% accuracy.
The pyramid therefore
encodes the relative sizes
of moon and earth.
The 3-4-5 triangle itself
contains a secret that unlocks
yet more of the mystery.
The area of a 3-4-5
triangle is six.
Six is one of very few
perfect numbers in math,
and is the only number in
the infinite sea of numbers
which is both the sum and
product of the same three
numbers.
The number six is associated
with the macrocosm,
which is everything
in the universe
larger than the human scale.
There's a simple
mathematical realization
that gets you from six to
720 that I'll skip over here.
Pause the video if
you love numbers.
When you scale the
original diagram by 720,
here's what you get--
the actual dimensions
of the moon and earth in miles.
The diagram says the Earth's
diameter is 7,920 miles,
and that's 99.9% accurate.
The diagram says the moon's
diameter is 2,160 miles,
and that's 99.94% accurate.
That's one precise
approximation.
John Michell called these
the canonical numbers
for a good reason.
When we lay this diagram over
Stonehenge we see that it fits.
The dimensions of Stonehenge
match the canonical numbers,
but with a shifted decimal
place and in English feet
rather than in miles.
St. Mary's Chapel in
Glastonbury is another structure
Michell has found that
fits the canonical numbers
in English feet.
According to the legend,
Saint Joseph of Arimathea
left Jerusalem after
the crucifixion
and traveled to the
Druid Isle of Avalon,
where he built the
first Christian church.
This was later rebuilt
as St. Mary's Chapel
in the 12th century.
Joseph of Arimathea is
mentioned in all four gospels
as the wealthy man who donated
his own prepared tomb that
became the Holy Sepulcher.
Some say Joseph of
Arimathea was Jesus' uncle
because he acted like a
family member in this regard.
In any case, these
are the walls that
remain from St. Mary's
Chapel, and here are
its dimensions in English feet.
The dimensions fit the canonical
numbers just like Stonehenge.
The original chapels ground plan
resonates with a double vesica
piscis like we saw in the
analysis of the great seal
of the United States.
Thinking of the
legend, I overlaid a 5
by 12 rectangle with x's
inside that we'll see later
in Jerusalem, and I
discovered that it closely
fits the double vesica piscis.
Perhaps there is truth to
the legend of St. Joseph
of Arimathea after all.
St. Mary's seems to bear
the stamp of the Jerusalem
rectangle.
If shifting the decimal place
in the canonical numbers
doesn't matter then there
must be something special
about the decimal system.
Consider Pythagoras'
motto, "all is number."
The most sacred symbol in the
Pythagorean secret worship
of number was the tetractys.
The diagram consists
of points arranged
in four rows with one,
two, three, and four points
in each successive row.
The tetractys symbolizes
the four elements,
encodes pure musical intervals,
is the seed for understanding
the harmony of the
cosmic spheres,
and represents the
structure of space itself.
The sum of the points
in the tetractys is 10.
The decimal system we use
today, known as base 10,
utilizes nine digits
plus 0 as a placeholder.
In fact, the word digit
comes from the Latin digitus,
which means finger.
We naturally assume
base 10 must have
arisen from the practice
of counting on fingers.
Peter Plichta, who is both
a physicist and a chemist,
has shown in his
book "God's Secret
Formula" that there is much
more to the decimal system
beyond the physiology
of our hands.
Believe it or not, the decimal
system hinges on the number 81.
To understand this, bear
with me for a moment
and see how all the numbers
in the decimal system
are hiding under 81.
Starting with the decimal
point, line up all the numbers
sequentially like this.
The numbers beyond 9
are shown in parentheses
because they are not
yet in the decimal place
system of single digits.
Carrying each parenthesized
digit into the decimal system
yields a repeating decimal.
This infinitely
repeating number is
equal to the reciprocal of 81.
All the numbers really
are hiding under 81.
This is especially significant
because there are exactly
81 stable elements in the
universe-- no more, no less.
The Periodic Table
of the Elements
list the elements beyond 83 as
subject to radioactive decay,
but most are unaware of the
fact that unstable elements 43
and 61 don't exist
anywhere in the universe
unless they are synthesized.
Plitchta was the first
to make this connection
and also points out that all 81
stable elements are categorized
into 10 types of isotopes,
which is another reference
to the decimal system.
So Pythagoras was
right, all his number,
and the numbers are in base 10.
Renna Shesso's book,
"Math for Mystics,"
points out some
relevant spooky facts.
Not only does the moon
move through space
81 times faster than
the Earth, but the moon
has 1/81 the mass of Earth.
Am I alone in thinking
this is just too perfect?
She also points out that
the magic square of the moon
is a 9 by 9 square
having 81 numbers.
Magic squares go back at least
2,600 years to ancient China.
I get the feeling all of this
was known in the distant past.
While kids count to
10 on their fingers,
theoretical physicists
talk about 10
dimensional super-strings
and Kabbalists
talk about 10 sefirot
on the tree of life.
They are all recounting
the decimal structure
of the universe from
different points of view.
Traveling a short distance along
the Nile we come to Dahshur,
sight of the lesser known
Red and Bent pyramids.
Egyptologists claim these
were contemporaneous
with the Great Pyramid of Giza.
I think the sacred geometry
of both pyramids was correctly
deciphered as
world-mysteries.com.
The pyramids at
Dahshur hold keys
to macrocosm and microcosm.
First of all, the
Red Pyramid isn't
as steep as the Great Pyramid.
Its face proportions
match this red triangle
within a pentagram.
Tilting up four such
triangles until the meet
defines the pyramid
and its slope.
The pentagram is a
powerful magical talisman
that was a symbol of
the Pythagorean school.
The pentagram encodes the
golden number phi within itself
fractally.
Phi is one of the most
important numbers in mathematics
because nature uses it
to proportion everything
from pine cones to sunflowers
and nautilus shells,
even our bodies are based
on the golden section.
The number 5 is associated
with the microcosm with life
and in the growth
of living things.
The adjacent Bent Pyramid
is the only pyramid
with two slope angles.
The lower slope is steeper
than the Great Pyramid,
and its face proportions
match this blue triangle
within a hexagon.
Tilting up for such
triangles until they meet
defines the pyramids
lower slope.
The upper slope matches
the Red Pyramid,
so it's red triangles
within pentagons again here.
So what's up with all the
hexagons and pentagons?
It has been said that the
great enigma of alchemy
is the mystery between
macrocosm and microcosm.
The word alchemy actually
comes from "Al Kemi,"
which means the way of Egypt.
I believe relating six to five
is the essential key encoded
at Dahshur.
Renaissance master,
Albrecht Durer
made this drawing in his course
in the art of measurement
with compasses and a ruler.
Everything emerges
from the vesica piscis.
Durer's Melancholia
One is one of the most
studied pieces of esoteric art.
Franz Deckwitz presented the
following analysis in 1979
to Jean Michell who published
it in his 1988 book,
"The Dimensions of Paradise."
The opening of the
compasses is the key
to the engravings metrology.
The compasses, sphere, measuring
stick, and overall proportions
all fit the same unit.
As already mentioned, the
engravings proportions of 14:11
match the Great Pyramids
half triangle proportion.
The objects in the engraving are
packed with hermetic symbolism,
but the most
interesting thing to me
is the hidden
controlling geometry.
It's the alchemical wedding
of pentagon and hexagon.
Schwaller de Lubicz did this
study of an Egyptian gateway.
Notice the proportions of
sixes and fives in the opening,
and the octave height of two
compared to the overall width
of the fundamental one.
Henry Lincoln co-wrote
"Holy Blood, Holy Grail,"
which became an inspiration
for Dan Brown's "The Da Vinci
Code" published more
than 20 years later.
In "The Holy Place,"
Lincoln revealed
what he calls a structured
landscape in the former Cathar
country surrounding the
mysterious village of Rennes Le
Chateau.
Again we see the
marriage of six and five.
The pentagram over
the cube in DC
is another representation of
six and five coming together.
Recall how triple
sixes and fives
are encoded in the
Washington Monument
as 6,660 inches equals 555 feet.
America's monumental
obelisk therefore
expresses the relationship
between macrocosm
and microcosm.
Moving to a larger scale,
the Earth encodes six to five
in temporal and spatial terms.
The earth's precessional
cycle measured
in years divided by the earth's
equatorial circumference
measured in nautical
miles is precisely
equal to six divided by five.
Alex B. Geddes
discovered relationships
in the solar system that
express the macrocosm
relationship to the microcosm.
These are published in John
Martineau's superb "Little
Book of Coincidence."
The relationships
Geddes found are
ratios between the products of
mean orbital radius of planets
in our solar system.
More specifically the ratios
each equals six divided by five
plus a small factor that
must be added in each case
to balance the equalities.
Each product is a
symmetrical relationship
between inner rocky planets
and outer gas giants.
I notice that each
one of the factors
added to balance the
equalities encodes 864.
The same number you learned
in the Stonehenge and San
Francisco episodes is
the number of the sun.
How incredibly apropos.
In mathematics,
phi and pi are two
of the most important numbers.
They can be related
in the following way.
Six divided by five times
phi squared equals pi.
This equation is an extremely
accurate approximation,
but is not exact and as such
is classified by mathematicians
as a coincidence.
Are all of these things
just pure coincidence
or evidence of
hyper-dimensional resonance?
For a more complete
answer to that,
you'll have to wait
for the Paris episodes.
For the next astonishing
example of sixes over fives,
we'll visit the Holy
City of Jerusalem.